this is Gator country a beautiful but
treacherous stretch of swamp near
Tallahassee the blood runs cold and the
powerful reptiles that rule the water
here but is Mike Williams the victim of
another kind of cold-blooded killer
alligators don't just consume people
hold the glistening waters of Florida's
Lake Seminole just outside of
Tallahassee had always been a favorite
spot for Michael a man who seemed to
have it all a successful career in real
estate a beautiful wife a sweet young
daughter and a longtime love for duck
hunting friends say Mike would grab any
chance to hunt even if he had to sit
alone in his boat on Seminole Lake it
was not unusual for Michael to go
hunting by himself
then one December morning is a whipping
cold front was tearing it to Tallahassee
Mike grabs his shotgun and heads out to
the lake a lot of ducks here a lot of
dogs
what about alligators there's alligators
too likes Emma know has quite yes here
Mike promises his adoring wife Denise
he'll be back by noon after all it's a
special day the loving couple is
celebrating their 6th wedding
anniversary I said so what are you doing
this weekend
he says Denise and I are having a
wedding anniversary we're gonna go down
to it's a little bed-and-breakfast and
just kind of relax and kick back and I
said sounds great I like Denise I
thought she was perfect for Michael he
gave her everything gave her everything
she wanted she doesn't have to work
after the baby was born but it's well
past noon now Mike hasn't returned home
from his hunting trip daylight curls
into darkening skies and Denise becomes
frantic he had a cell phone he was an
Internet she phones her dad and friends
rendezvous at the lake
Brian Winchester Mike's best buddy and
Denise's dad lead the desperate search
at dusk for her missing husband it was
still very windy cold storm had just
blown through the temperature plummeted
to 19 degrees which made searching very
difficult you got rain
you've got extremely high winds Florida
Fish and Wildlife officer David Arnett
was the first investigator called to the
scene and I was told we had a missing
boater on Lake Seminole the search is
called off for the night but the next
day they get their first break into
Mike's mysterious disappearance they
find his boat you're pretty certain that
this is where he launched the boat yes
there's no question about the boat being
launched here due to the fact that his
truck and trailer was right here also
and where was the boat found from here
the boat was found approximately 300
yards to our right it was apparent that
it had been launched by one individual
the way the boat had been turned around
and apparently pushed out Mike's shotgun
was there still in its case there was
some decoys on top of some other
equipment but there was no Mike
search and rescue divers choppers and
hundreds of hours of manpower by law
enforcement agencies over weeks then
months are spent scouring the lake
looking for Mike hoping by some miracle
he's still alive but tragically it
became all too clear at that point it
seemed to be a more of a recovery type
search than than looking for somebody
who was in distress and they were
treating this as an accident Mike had
fallen over Florida Fish and Wildlife
investigators believed he had been
pulled under by the weight of his
fisherman's waders and drowned in the
shallow depths of alligator infested
waters when you arrived here did you
think it was anything but a hunter who
fell in the water no not at all
everything indicated that the boater had
fell out of the boat and possibly
drowned there was no other indication of
anything else
but that just didn't hold water with
Mike's grieving mom I don't have a body
I don't have anything to tell me what
happened to my son
supposedly alligators agent a potential
feast of flesh for a ferocious
congregation of cold-blooded reptiles
but Mike's mom says there is one big
problem and it has to do with the
weather
remember it was bitterly cold that day
alligators do not eat in cold water
alligators don't eat people hole if they
do attack they chew on people they tear
arms and legs or whatever but this
always parts found after an alligator
attack but not an odd human bone nor a
shred of human flesh has ever surfaced
from those muddy waters and there's
something else nobody remember seeing
Mike at the lake that morning did these
cold-blooded carnivores consume Mike
Williams after he accidentally fell out
of his boat and drowned or was the
successful handsome 31 year old husband
father and seasoned duck hunter the
victim of foul play the search for Mike
Williams was exhaustive there were
divers in the water helicopters above
search crews on the ground with dogs and
they searched for 44 days more than 700
man hours and they never did find Mike
or his body incredibly investigators
believe there may have been nothing left
of Mike after the alligators his
heartbroken mother is tortured by that
thought but says it wasn't the Gators
that got her son
how did you die we're going to was it
quick
it's horrible every single person that
went missing on that Lake had been found
recovered whatever this was extremely
unusual adding to the mystery
Special Agent Devaney is told alligators
become zombie like they almost hibernate
and don't really eat in wintertime word
got out that maybe Mike was eaten by
alligators a lot of people just assumed
that's what happened to Mike however a
lot of the folks who had been around
alligators who had been around this Lake
rather discounted that because
alligators don't eat people whole then
after months of searching for Mike a
strange clue suddenly surfaces all of a
sudden a hat appears but why wasn't a
hat found during that 10 day time trick
it was floating on the surface again
real close to the area where Mike put in
his boat people couldn't quite figure
that out they turned to Mike's best
buddy Brian Winchester Mike's friend
Brian Winchester examined the hat and he
told the folks this looks like a hat
Mike may have owned but agent Devaney
says a DNA test is inconclusive
very suspicious things get even stranger
when a fisherman scoops up a pair of
waders they're the same kind Mike was
wearing when he fell overboard but
there's something mysterious about them
too let's talk about the mystery when
you found the waders
was there any remnant of a human being
in there there's you know no body parts
in there there's no sign where an
alligator has toll on the waders
whatsoever they were completely intact
what do you make of that this was six
months after the initial search started
and you wonder how did we miss this all
this time
we can't connect the dots there a short
time later divers at the scene
pull up Mike's hunting jacket his
hunting license is still legible even
his flashlight is still working after
six months in the water wasn't that
proof that he probably did drown the
condition of these items were so
pristine that there was no way that they
would have been at the bottom of this
lake which is mossy and algae coated
they were too new they were so clearly
planted Jennifer Portman is the news
director at the Tallahassee Democrat
she'd never heard about the case until
six years after Mike mysteriously went
missing what is it that got you
interested well I was actually reading
our newspaper and saw an advertisement
that said have you seen my son and it
was this narrative that went down
written by Cheryl Williams her son had
disappeared at Lake Seminole they said
he was eaten by alligators it was this
incredible mystery I couldn't believe it
you see Mike's mom Cheryl never gave up
hope of finding her beloved son she took
out full-page ads in the newspaper and
on billboards asking the public for help
she even took to the streets calling for
a criminal investigation but Mike's mom
says her pleas fell on deaf ears all the
way up to the governor's office I had to
write the story and so I went ahead and
started reporting it so what is it that
you found interesting in it
the alligators eating immediately was
the thing that you know as a reporter I
was like what it just seemed so bizarre
and then I started going through the
reporting of it and the record was so
thin but there were these clues and
because of course he died without a will
so the wife declaring him dead after six
months never finding the body it just
all seemed very strange so why do you
think it didn't get as much news
attention at the time he was looked at
as someone who drowned in Lake Seminole
we had a brief in the newspaper was
never followed up at the time his wife
Denise Williams was not interested in
publicity and so it just kind of
disappeared friends and family say
Mike's wife Denise was devastated after
all she was only 31 a widow with a young
daughter to raise alone she and Mike had
dated since the ninth grade at a private
Christian school it was almost cliche he
was a football jock and she was a
cheerleader he wanted more out of life
than he had growing up Mike was on the
fast track of success he held down two
jobs through college one was with
Ketchum Real Estate Appraisers would you
say that Mike Williams was a successful
businessman if you measure success by
money he was successful he was
successful in that he had a beautiful
wife and he had his daughter Ansley that
he dearly loved so yeah I think by most
standards he would be successful
normally in Florida you have to wait
five years before a missing person can
be legally declared dead but just six
months after Denise's husband vanished
without a trace
she asked for the state to issue his
death certificate I had no idea I was
shocked and what was the evidence
Denise used to convince a judge her
husband met his demise at the bottom of
the lake
his hunting jacket hunting license a
working flashlight and the pristine pair
of waders with no alligator holes you
think this evidence was planted we're
convinced the evidence was planted
Cheryl's crusade to open a criminal
probe seem to enrage her daughter-in-law
after Mike disappeared she threatened to
me she said if you do anything to get a
criminal investigation you're going to
lose access to Ansley my granddaughter
I'd already lost my husband
I lost Michael and now she's telling me
I'm gonna lose Ansley I said what if
that were Ansley missing would you not
look for her
she said that's different I have to go
on with my life I don't ever want to
hear Mike's name I don't ever want to
see Mike's face to this day a
heartbroken Cheryl hasn't seen her
adorable granddaughter it was time for
me to have a chat with Denise
Denise okay let's go then crime watch
daily sent a producer back to her house
but when she saw us coming Denise took
off out of the driveway did alligator's
really devour duck hunter Mike Williams
or did Mike fall victim to another kind
of maneater I believe he was killed and
I believe his body was taken somewhere
else and I believe his truck and boat
was left over there staged over there
how much insurance money did his wife
get there were two insurance policies
one that was written about six months
before he went missing that was for 1.5
million dollars we don't know if Mike
ever knew that this insurance policy was
taken out though it was filled out as if
it was him
retired Jackson County Sheriff Derrick
Webster inherited the case four years
after Mike vanished I hadn't been for
his mother a criminal investigation
would have never been open it would have
been a missing person that was never
found it was Mike's widow Denise who was
the beneficiary of a huge life insurance
policy you encouraged Mike to buy as
much life insurance as possible sure his
old boss clay Ketchum was like a father
to Mike and he said what would be your
advice and I said Mike
given your age at life and given your
risky behavior I would buy all the life
insurance I could what was Brian
Winchester's role in all of this Brian
Winchester sold insurance
Brian Winchester was close pals with
Mike and Denise is that suspicious to me
yeah Brian Winchester had someone in my
life as sure as positive the suspicion
is is that his wife went ahead and did
this with Brian and Mike was unaware of
it
Cley catch them said alarm bells went
off for him too when Mike first went
missing
Brian Winchester called me he said
there's a new development and the Game
and Fish Commission or FWC believes that
he may have been eaten by an alligator
you thought it was possible that he
drowned until you heard the alligators
story
yeah the alligator story was when I
started wondering as to whether Mike was
really in that light there was another
thing investigators found curious
Mike's shotgun the one that was found in
the empty boat it's not for duck hunting
and Ketchum says Mike kept all his guns
in the office for safety to enter after
hours a personal password is needed to
turn off the alarm
do you have any record or any way of
knowing whether he actually came in here
to get his shotgun I can't tell you Mike
Williams came in here I can tell you
that the door opened Mike Williams code
was inserted catch some regrets never
telling investigators at the time that
Mike had a terrible secret weighing on
his shoulders the seemingly perfect
marriage to his high school sweetheart
Denise was on the rocks
Mike had confided in me 30 days prior to
his disappearance that there was some
issues within the marriage what kind of
problems were Mike and his wife having
you know I don't really know it had
something to do with finances I know
that and it was having to do with a
credit-card charge and it exceeded the
limit that Mike and Denise had set for
themselves and that was bothersome
bothersome in watch in which way I mean
my guess is it wasn't Mike who charged
the money and that it wasn't something
that he would have necessarily agreed to
I think it had to do with though like a
trust issue
the huge life-insurance policies would
likely assure Denise that she'd never
have to pinch pennies again but there
was another theory that surfaced about
what could have happened to Mike did he
fake his own death it wasn't long after
his disappearance several folks raised
the idea that because of Mike's good
salary at that age could he have used
some of that money just to leave start a
new life
if people knew Mike you know that's
really kind of a stupid thing to say
Mike was extremely devoted to his
daughter Ansley when he disappeared in
Mike's bond with his mother and his and
his brother you know extremely strong
the ink was barely dry on Mike's death
certificate when his mom found out that
her daughter-in-law was having a torrid
affair with her son's best friend Brian
Winchester we were told only most
occasions that Brian and Denise were
having affair before he went missing
long before the husband went missing he
in fact Brian Winchester actually got a
divorce and married his best friend's
wife there's enough pain here with the
disappearance of your brother but add to
that his wife then goes and marries his
best friend and then they are living in
your brother's old house there's a lot
of anger because I know they're sitting
in over a million dollars was it like a
dagger in the heart when she married
your brother's best friend it was it
seemed the grieving widow was now the
merry widow with a new hubby
the Gators didn't do it so was Mike
Williams a successful real estate
executive loving husband and father
murdered for his money a question came
up when his spouse started to inquire
about obtaining the insurance monies
during the search Mike's mother and
brother say his widow Denise has been
living on easy street since she
collected at least 1.5 million dollars
in death benefits when we were talking
about who stood to benefit from Mike
Williams being declared dead it looks
like it would have been his wife right
there were two insurance policies one
that was written about six months before
he went missing by his best friend Brian
Winchester that was for 1.5 million
dollars what would be the words to
describe this I think it definitely
raises eyebrows as to maybe what was
going on
surrounding Mike's disappearance adding
to the suspicions
Denise marries the man who wrote those
insurance policies Mike's best friend
Brian Winchester then she reportedly
cuts the family cord with Mike's mom and
big brother Nick it makes it seem so
calculated it does would you ever call
Denise Williams the grieving widow how
it's been characterized to me is she was
not that way that she moved on pretty
swiftly and was ready to just put Mike
behind her initially investigators
looked at the case as a tragic boating
accident Mike possibly drowned and his
corpse was eaten by alligators but there
are a bunch of clues from the scene that
don't add up one his boat was found with
a full tank of gas like it had never
been used that day to the shotgun Mike's
brother says it was not the one Mike
used to hunt ducks three his gear
Mike's jacket waders even his hunting
license were not found until six months
after Mike disappeared and despite all
that time in the water they were all in
pristine
addition not a single tooth mark from an
alligator and number four is the biggest
mystery there was not a shred of Mike
and piecing together what appears to be
a pretty sinister strange story there is
no physical evidence so at every turn
it's really tough the no arrests are
made no suspects are named because all
you can get is this story that seems
suspicious but it doesn't kind of cross
that line into where you can actually
take any action with it
investigators launched an insurance
probe but couldn't prove anything
underhanded what they were trying to do
was prove insurance fraud and that would
involve that he was killed to get the
money but Nick believes there may be a
reason why his brother's best friend
married his former sister-in-law and he
says it wasn't just for love they were
actually married and so no I wasn't
really shocked just because if they were
involved in killing my collecting all
this insurance they want to get married
and not have to testify against each
other one day despite Mike's brothers
allegations Brian Winchester has never
been charged or named as a suspect
in Mike Williams mysterious
disappearance I wanted to get his side
of the story so I went to Brian's
Insurance office
Brian Winchester it's Anna Garcia from
crime watch daily Brian
guess he's not here shortly after my
visit we find out there is big trouble
in his marriage with Denise Winchester
is arrested for allegedly kidnapping
Denise and holding her at gunpoint in
her car he was reportedly distraught
over their impending divorce he
allegedly tells her he's going to kill
himself
this is Denise at her estranged
husband's arraignment recounting to the
court her day of Terror he was waiting
for me in the back of my car with a gun
he grabbed the steering wheel he shoved
the gun in my rib cage screaming
profanities uncontrollably at me I will
never be the same
I would never anyone I can't sleep I
can't eat because I only see him all
rising up out of the back of the car
because all I feel is the gun shoved in
my ribs I can't have peace because I
only hear his voice screaming and
cussing at me please don't let him out
Denyce also reads a plea from her now
teenaged daughter she had with Mike
Williams begging the judge to keep her
stepfather behind bars she is all I have
please don't let him out he will come
for her and I will have no one I am
going to find probable cause as to the
three arrest charges of kidnapping
aggravated assault with a deadly weapon
Brian Winchester has pleaded not guilty
to these charges but Mike's family is
wondering if this could be the break
homicide detectives have been waiting
for Mike's brother is hoping one of them
will now break their silence I think
it's just gonna take a confession from
one of them to to crack the case the
chances of this ever being solved are so
slim unless whoever was involved in this
ends up confessing
if Brian and Denise were standing right
here with me I would tell them I don't
know why they're not cooperating with
the law enforcement people and I don't
know why they're not offering some type
of reward if you've got that kind of
life insurance money certainly you could
participate in the solving of this case
and if it was my wife who was missing
and I had the resources I would not stop
until we got a solution to it and that's
strange to me Denise has never been
charged in Mike's disappearance Mike's
mother would love to be able to ask her
former daughter-in-law what she knows
but denise is not talking to her or
anybody in Mike's family you think
someone killed him I think it's very
possible somebody killed him I only have
two choices where Mike's concerns he can
be dead or I can hold that hope but he's
alive somewhere and right now until
somebody can bring me absolute
when it proof that Michael is dead I'm
gonna believe that it's gonna come home
[Music]